<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV: A Broken Tile</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Broken Tile</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Almost exactly four months after he had completed his second inventory of the contents of Beech Lodge, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad, again accompanied by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dawkins, stood once more in the paneled study. He had come to the house with his admirable manner, in which was blended this time a rather full knowledge of what had recently happened. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dawkins, who also read the papers, and was, as well, impressed by the air of the older man, seemed rather taciturn. There had been opportunity to say a good deal on the way down from London, and he was distinctly thrilled when they turned in at the white gate. Now the inventory book was opened and laid on Millicent’s desk. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad then took out a large handkerchief and blew his nose with a trumpet-like sound as though he enjoyed it. He had ascertained that the Derricks were in the garden, and both servants back in the kitchen. The morning was fine and clear.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” he said with a touch of unction, “when I’ve heard of a case just exactly like this. Here we are, paid to do precisely the same thing over again simply because a foolish woman killed herself. We’ve both seen houses that were enough to make any really sensitive person commit suicide, but”⁠—he glanced round with open approval⁠—“they were not houses like this. It all brings back to me the great truth that the foundation of our business is the undeniable suspicion that well-bred people have of each other. There’s practically no inventory connection with the lower and lower middle classes. Do you happen to remember a remark I made about ‘things’ when we were here last?”</p>
			<p>“I do,” replied Dawkins; “and, what’s more, I’ve been thinking about it ever since.”</p>
			<p>“Well, these are not the kind of things to make one tired of life. There’s another point. I expressed my conclusions about the manner in which ‘things’ occupy the greater part of the time of so many women.”</p>
			<p>“You did,” said Dawkins soberly, “and I said it wasn’t that way with us because we hadn’t any. But my young woman has started since then.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad smiled. “Quite so; that was inevitable; and now that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Millicent has disposed of hers to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Thursby, Miss Millicent, who will marry <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Derrick next week, is already starting another collection. I hope she may do as well as this. She can’t do better. I don’t know when I’ve seen a room I like more. Her mother’s work, of course, all of it.”</p>
			<p>“Why do you suppose that woman killed <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Millicent?” asked Dawkins thoughtfully. “I read it all several times over in several papers, but it always struck me there was a good deal that didn’t meet the eye.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad smiled again. “Why, do you suppose, does a woman do anything?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know yet. I’ve only been married a year.”</p>
			<p>“Then you know more now than you will in ten. The appearance of Perkins suggested that she might do anything at any moment, if you remember. If the cause was what it usually is with a woman⁠—jealousy, or, in other words, love that has grown the wrong way⁠—I can only wonder why she waited so many years. There are a good many queer things about the case; for instance, that foreigner who shammed dead when he was under arrest, then slid out of the station.”</p>
			<p>“I wonder what he was doing here?”</p>
			<p>“Might as well ask why <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Millicent’s old gardener came back as though he wanted to stick his head into the noose,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad sententiously. “Might as well ask why my client is willing to pay through the nose to get this house back just after letting it for a term of years⁠—though I suspect there’s a woman in that, too. Might as well ask why your client began by trying to hunt out <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Millicent’s murderer and finished by finding his daughter. Might as well ask a heap of things that will never be answered, and perhaps in the long run it’s just as well they’re not. We know as much as is good for us as it is, and what we don’t know can’t hurt us much as long as we keep on not knowing it. Now what about the contents of this room?”</p>
			<p>“The stuff seems the same with a few additions, but a little differently arranged; that’s all.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad strolled about, his sharp eyes very active, returned to the desk, leaned over, then adjusted his glasses. He peered for a moment and frowned.</p>
			<p>“That’s really very odd.”</p>
			<p>“What is?”</p>
			<p>“You remember we didn’t agree about a stain here, and returned so that I could satisfy you on the point? It was a little difficult to detect.”</p>
			<p>Dawkins wetted his thumb and turned a few leaves in the big book.</p>
			<p>“Yes, here it is, a post entry, and initialed by both of us. ‘Large, irregular stain on near left-hand corner of leather-desk top, nearly effaced.’ Right ho! let’s have a look!”</p>
			<p>He came over, stared hard, and straightened up with an exclamation. “You must have mesmerized me into seeing that before. It’s certainly not there now, and the light is excellent. What do you make of it?”</p>
			<p>“What we don’t know won’t hurt us,” said Jarrad with a slow shake of the head. “Initial this erasure, will you. What’s next?”</p>
			<p>Dawkins looked troubled, and a little anxious. “But I say⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I began just the way you’re going on now, but I got over it. I suggest that so far as this room is concerned we just count the books and articles of furniture, pass on their general condition, and call the thing a go. Your clients are not the kind who give me any worry.”</p>
			<p>Dawkins nodded and began the recital, reading from the book in a rapid and level singsong as though he were chanting the creed of his profession.</p>
			<p>“General condition excellent,” he concluded, and shut the book.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad shook his head. “I can’t agree to that now. The maintenance is not what it was. Quite obvious that the housemaid is untrained or lazy; possibly both. Look at this mantel.”</p>
			<p>He drew a finger across the top of the mantel behind the clock, and left a faint trail where the dust had been displaced.</p>
			<p>“Couldn’t do that the last time we were here. No, the upkeep is not as good. Condition fair, I should say, at the most. See for yourself.”</p>
			<p>Dawkins sniffed and investigated. “Perhaps you’re right. I suppose my client is a little short of help. All right, ‘condition fair.’ Anything else?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrad glanced at the hearth. “Yes, one thing. One fireplace tile split. You have no note of that, I think, and it’s the only real damage we’ve seen.”</p>
			<p>“No, I’ve nothing here. Let me see it.”</p>
			<p>He was bending over the hearth when Derrick came in. Jarrad made his well-known bow.</p>
			<p>“We have just completed this room, sir, and the only real dilapidation we find is in this hearth. It’s a small matter, but nothing is too small for us to note. Perhaps you may remember when it happened, as it’s evidently quite recent.”</p>
			<p>Derrick stared at the cracked tile.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said slowly, “I remember that very distinctly.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
